# smart-home
- Project description:-
1) MASTER control clock system.
2) MASTER measuring temperature then send it to SLAVE1 to control air conditioner and heater system.
3) MASTER measures the light intensity and then sends it to SLAVE2 to control the illumination system.
1) SLAVE2 control door system.

door system:
the user creates a password using the keypad and saves it in the EEPROM, then uses it to open the gate, the user can recreate the password again.

illumination system:
1) stairs light: using push button to turn on the LED for ten seconds, counting the second using timer0 and displaying it using BCD seven segment.
2) outdoor light: MASTER reads LDR using ADC then sends it to SLAVE2 using USART, then SLAVE2 turns on the lamp connected to the relay if the reading is higher than 50, and turns off the lamp if the reading is lower than 50.


air conditioner and heater system:
MASTER read the temperature using TC74, then sends it to SLAVE1 using I2C, SLAVE1 controls the operation as following:-
1) if the temperature is between 25 and 30 degrees, no operation happens.
2) if the temperature is higher than 30 degrees, the air conditioner turns on and speed increases gradually in proportion to temperature.
3) if the temperature is lower than 20 degrees, the heater turns on with constant speed.
speed is generated by PWM from the CCP module.


clock system:
MASTER reading the date and time from RTC(DC1307) using I2C, then displaying it on the LCD, setting the alarm, adjusting the date and time using the buttons, then updating the date and time in RTC(DC1307) using I2C, when the alarm time comes buzzer turns on.
